TESTING.MD, before:

# Testing User Stories
## Testing User Stories

### Viewing and Navigation
    1. As a first time user i would like to know what the website is offering so i can make a decision on whether i would like to continue using the site.
        - The Home page includes a large banner image relvent to the products Cultclassics are offering to customers. 
        - A large clear title describes what the website is offering with "Authentic vintage football shirts".
        - A shop now call to action button makes it clear to the user that they will be able to purchase products for the site. 

    [Homepage for user story 1](media/readme/userstorieshomepage.png)

    2. As a first time user i would like to see easy to understand and use navigation to move around the site
        - The navigation bar is split into two sections, the top nav contains the business brand name which is clickable link returning to the home screen from whichever page the user is on, secondly there is a large search bar for use when a user has a specific product in mind which they would like to search for and lastly there are two links, one which opens up a page menu and the second which opens up the users shopping bag. 
        - The second second of the nav bar contains four product categories for the user to use as search filters. 
        - All links in the nav bar and the footer are universally recogniseable making navigation around these links intuitive for the user. For example, the search bar collapses to a magnifying glass icon and the shopping bag icon is a bag. 
        - The navigation bar is fixed to the top of the screen so it is consistant with other websites and always accesable for users. 
    
    [Homepage for user story 2](media/readme/userstorieshomepageicons.png)

### Registration and User Accounts 
    3. As a site user i would like to register an account to make future purchases easier.
        - Users can register to the website using the link in either the footer of the page or in the account dropdown in the nav bar. 
        - Registering to the site is again simple and easy with tooltips being used on required fields when a user hasnt filled them out. 
    
    [Registration for user story 3](media/readme/userstoriesregistration.png)

    4. As a logged in user i would like to see a profile summary and all my previous order details.
        - Registered users have acces to their order hsitory and delivery information on the profilep page. 
        - On the profile page users can update their delivery information.
        - Users can also click on previous orders which will take them to their confirmation page for that order.
    
    [Profile page for user story 4](media/readme/userstoriesprofile.png)

    5. As a returning user i would like to save products to a wishlist so i can easily purchase at a later date.
        - A regsitered user is able to see their favourite saved itmes on either the favourites page or a snippet of 4 products in the product detail page. 

    [Favourites page for user story 5](media/readme/userstoriesfavourites.png)

    6. As a site user with an account i would like to easily log in and log in of my account.
        - Users can log in and out of their accounts using the account icon in the nav bar or in the footer. On logging out the user will be met with a secondary "Are you sure you wish to log out page". 
    
    [Favourites page for user story 6](media/readme/userstorieslogout.png)

### Sorting and Searching 
    7. As a shopper i would like to view all the products available to buy on the site so i can browse options i may not have seen before.
        - The main products page displayes all products to the user in a four card width column. 
    
    8. As a shopper i would like to narrow down the products on the site to a specific category so i can find a product quickly.
        - The bottom Nav bar contains the four main categories as dropdown links with further sub categories for the user to filter to a specific set of products. 

    [categories for user story 8](media/readme/userstoriescategories.png)

    9. As a shopper i would like to view the products in specific orders for example acending price order or decending rating order.
        - Users are able to sort products on the products page using the sort by the dropdown selector. Users have the option to sort the products by Price: high to low or low to high, Rating: high to low or low to high, Name: A-Z or Z-A.

    [Sorting for user story 9](media/readme/userstoriessorting.png)

    10. As a shopper i would like to search for products using key words so i can quickly narrow down to a product i know i would like to purchase.
        - Users are able to use the search bar in the top nav allowing them to search for products using keywords.
    
    11. As a shopper i would like to be able to add products i like to a favourites list to view at a later time.
        - Logged in users can use the universally known heart icon at the bottom of the product card to add to their favourites list.
        - The icon will change colour on hover and click to red to indicate the action has happened, along with a toast message dropping down from the nav bar.
        - The icon will change to a cross should the user already have this product saved in their favourites, from this icon the user can reove from favourites.
        - The icon is tool-tipped for clear understanding. 

    [Favourites icon for user story 11](media/readme/userstoriesfavs.png)

### Purchasing and Checkout

    12. As a shopper i would like to be able to add items to a basket should i wish to make more than one purchase.
        - Users can add items to their bag from the product detail page, allowing them to make more than one purchase. 

    13. As a shopper i would like to see live updates to the total cost of my basket so i can make a decision as to if i can purchase more.
        - Users can add items to their bag and recieve live updates and feeback from the toasts used throughout the site. 
    
    [Bag multiple for user story 13](media/readme/userstoriesbagupdate.png)

    14. As a shopper i would like to be able to update my basket by further adding and removing products i have changed my mind on.
        - The user has the option to remove products from their bag using the remove button and the option to increasr the quantity of a product using the update button. 
    
    [Bag remove for user story 14](media/readme/userstoriesbagremove.png)

    15. As a shopper i would like to checkout and pay for my items securely.
        - Users can checkout by clicking the secure checkout button on the shopping bag page.
        - On the checkout page users can fill in the form. Required fields are indicated with a star in the placeholder.
        - Once the form is valid and the user has clicked the complete order button the checkout process is complete.
    
    [Checkout for user story 15](media/readme/userstoriescheckout.png)

    16. As a shopper i would like to see an order confirmation so i can validate my purchase.
        - Once a user has completed the checkout process, they will be shown a confirmation page with details of their order.
        - Users will also be shown a message letting them know that a confirmation email has been sent to their email address.
        - Registered users can find past confirmation orders in their profile.

    [Confirmation for user story 16](media/readme/userstoriesconfirmation.png)

### Admin and site management 

    17. As site admin i would like to be able to easily add, edit and remove products from the site so i can minimise process time.
        - Admin users will have access to a site management page. Access to this can be found in the nav bar under product management.
        - From here admin users can add products to the site, by clicking the add product icon and filling in the form. Once the add product button is submitted the user will be redirected to the product detail page for the product they have just added.
        - From the product detail page admin users can edit and delete products by clicking on the icons for these options.
        - Admin users can also edit and delete products from the products page directly.

     [Admin for user story 17](media/readme/userstoriesproductmanagement.png)

## Functionality Testing 
![Functionality Testing](media/readme/cultclassicstests.png)

# Code Validation

### HTML 

### CSS

### JS

# Browser Compatibility & Functionality Testing

- Browser compatibility
    - The site was tested on Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge and Safari browsers
    - The site was veiwed on a variety of devices such as Desktop, laptop, iPhone 7 plus, iPhone X and iPad mini 4
    - The above testing showed no errors and the website is cross-browser and cross-device compatible


## Known Bugs & Interesting
 Fixes
- Whilst creating the favorites function i noticed the product was saving to the users favorites and displayed the "remove from favorites" rather than "add to favorites", however on going to the users favorites back then back to all products the page refreshed all products to say "Add to favorites" even though the product was still in the users favorites list. To overcome this i moved the favorites code in the "all_products" view from the top of the function to the bottom as the page was refreshing and resetting all the products after the favorites in the code. 

- Whilst finalising the favourites functionality i realsied i was using the same looped code for the all products, favourites list in product detail and the favourites list. To comply with DRY i refactored the code to use an include function with a singular HTML file for the product loop. 

## Future improvements
- A useful feature to add would be a newsletter users could sign up to, encouraging more site visitors to create an account whilst also being able to offer discounts and detail on new products to the user. 
- Another useful feature to add for the future would be a welcome discount for all newly registered users, enticing the user to spend on the site and encouraging more users to register to the site.

Commit message:

changes made to python code to meet PEP8 compliance

TESTING.MD, after:

# Testing User Stories
## Testing User Stories

### Viewing and Navigation
    1. As a first time user i would like to know what the website is offering so i can make a decision on whether i would like to continue using the site.
        - The Home page includes a large banner image relvent to the products Cultclassics are offering to customers. 
        - A large clear title describes what the website is offering with "Authentic vintage football shirts".
        - A shop now call to action button makes it clear to the user that they will be able to purchase products for the site. 

    [Homepage for user story 1](media/readme/userstorieshomepage.png)

    2. As a first time user i would like to see easy to understand and use navigation to move around the site
        - The navigation bar is split into two sections, the top nav contains the business brand name which is clickable link returning to the home screen from whichever page the user is on, secondly there is a large search bar for use when a user has a specific product in mind which they would like to search for and lastly there are two links, one which opens up a page menu and the second which opens up the users shopping bag. 
        - The second second of the nav bar contains four product categories for the user to use as search filters. 
        - All links in the nav bar and the footer are universally recogniseable making navigation around these links intuitive for the user. For example, the search bar collapses to a magnifying glass icon and the shopping bag icon is a bag. 
        - The navigation bar is fixed to the top of the screen so it is consistant with other websites and always accesable for users. 
    
    [Homepage for user story 2](media/readme/userstorieshomepageicons.png)

### Registration and User Accounts 
    3. As a site user i would like to register an account to make future purchases easier.
        - Users can register to the website using the link in either the footer of the page or in the account dropdown in the nav bar. 
        - Registering to the site is again simple and easy with tooltips being used on required fields when a user hasnt filled them out. 
    
    [Registration for user story 3](media/readme/userstoriesregistration.png)

    4. As a logged in user i would like to see a profile summary and all my previous order details.
        - Registered users have acces to their order hsitory and delivery information on the profilep page. 
        - On the profile page users can update their delivery information.
        - Users can also click on previous orders which will take them to their confirmation page for that order.
    
    [Profile page for user story 4](media/readme/userstoriesprofile.png)

    5. As a returning user i would like to save products to a wishlist so i can easily purchase at a later date.
        - A regsitered user is able to see their favourite saved itmes on either the favourites page or a snippet of 4 products in the product detail page. 

    [Favourites page for user story 5](media/readme/userstoriesfavourites.png)

    6. As a site user with an account i would like to easily log in and log in of my account.
        - Users can log in and out of their accounts using the account icon in the nav bar or in the footer. On logging out the user will be met with a secondary "Are you sure you wish to log out page". 
    
    [Favourites page for user story 6](media/readme/userstorieslogout.png)

### Sorting and Searching 
    7. As a shopper i would like to view all the products available to buy on the site so i can browse options i may not have seen before.
        - The main products page displayes all products to the user in a four card width column. 
    
    8. As a shopper i would like to narrow down the products on the site to a specific category so i can find a product quickly.
        - The bottom Nav bar contains the four main categories as dropdown links with further sub categories for the user to filter to a specific set of products. 

    [categories for user story 8](media/readme/userstoriescategories.png)

    9. As a shopper i would like to view the products in specific orders for example acending price order or decending rating order.
        - Users are able to sort products on the products page using the sort by the dropdown selector. Users have the option to sort the products by Price: high to low or low to high, Rating: high to low or low to high, Name: A-Z or Z-A.

    [Sorting for user story 9](media/readme/userstoriessorting.png)

    10. As a shopper i would like to search for products using key words so i can quickly narrow down to a product i know i would like to purchase.
        - Users are able to use the search bar in the top nav allowing them to search for products using keywords.
    
    11. As a shopper i would like to be able to add products i like to a favourites list to view at a later time.
        - Logged in users can use the universally known heart icon at the bottom of the product card to add to their favourites list.
        - The icon will change colour on hover and click to red to indicate the action has happened, along with a toast message dropping down from the nav bar.
        - The icon will change to a cross should the user already have this product saved in their favourites, from this icon the user can reove from favourites.
        - The icon is tool-tipped for clear understanding. 

    [Favourites icon for user story 11](media/readme/userstoriesfavs.png)

### Purchasing and Checkout

    12. As a shopper i would like to be able to add items to a basket should i wish to make more than one purchase.
        - Users can add items to their bag from the product detail page, allowing them to make more than one purchase. 

    13. As a shopper i would like to see live updates to the total cost of my basket so i can make a decision as to if i can purchase more.
        - Users can add items to their bag and recieve live updates and feeback from the toasts used throughout the site. 
    
    [Bag multiple for user story 13](media/readme/userstoriesbagupdate.png)

    14. As a shopper i would like to be able to update my basket by further adding and removing products i have changed my mind on.
        - The user has the option to remove products from their bag using the remove button and the option to increasr the quantity of a product using the update button. 
    
    [Bag remove for user story 14](media/readme/userstoriesbagremove.png)

    15. As a shopper i would like to checkout and pay for my items securely.
        - Users can checkout by clicking the secure checkout button on the shopping bag page.
        - On the checkout page users can fill in the form. Required fields are indicated with a star in the placeholder.
        - Once the form is valid and the user has clicked the complete order button the checkout process is complete.
    
    [Checkout for user story 15](media/readme/userstoriescheckout.png)

    16. As a shopper i would like to see an order confirmation so i can validate my purchase.
        - Once a user has completed the checkout process, they will be shown a confirmation page with details of their order.
        - Users will also be shown a message letting them know that a confirmation email has been sent to their email address.
        - Registered users can find past confirmation orders in their profile.

    [Confirmation for user story 16](media/readme/userstoriesconfirmation.png)

### Admin and site management 

    17. As site admin i would like to be able to easily add, edit and remove products from the site so i can minimise process time.
        - Admin users will have access to a site management page. Access to this can be found in the nav bar under product management.
        - From here admin users can add products to the site, by clicking the add product icon and filling in the form. Once the add product button is submitted the user will be redirected to the product detail page for the product they have just added.
        - From the product detail page admin users can edit and delete products by clicking on the icons for these options.
        - Admin users can also edit and delete products from the products page directly.

     [Admin for user story 17](media/readme/userstoriesproductmanagement.png)

## Functionality Testing 
![Functionality Testing](media/readme/cultclassicstests.png)

# Code Validation

- [responsinator](https://www.responsinator.com/) was used to check the responsiveness of the site across all devices and no errors were spotted
- [W3C Markup validator](https://validator.w3.org/) was used to validate my code. Line 166, 186 and 212 in base HTML a strong tag had been closed after the closing p tage so these were swapped. A missing closing div tag was spotted from the end of Base HTML. 
- [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/) was used to validate the CSS and no errors were found. 
- [JsHint](https://jshint.com/) was used to validate my Javascript, 6 missing semi-colons were found and added to the code. 
- [PEP8](http://pep8online.com/) and the command python3 -m flake8 was used in combination to show any PEP8 compliance errors, some white space was found and removed and some lines of code that were too long were shortened. 

# Browser Compatibility & Functionality Testing

- Browser compatibility
    - The site was tested on Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge and Safari browsers
    - The site was veiwed on a variety of devices such as Desktop, laptop, iPhone 7 plus, iPhone X and iPad mini 4
    - The above testing showed no errors and the website is cross-browser and cross-device compatible


## Known Bugs & Interesting
 Fixes
- Whilst creating the favorites function i noticed the product was saving to the users favorites and displayed the "remove from favorites" rather than "add to favorites", however on going to the users favorites back then back to all products the page refreshed all products to say "Add to favorites" even though the product was still in the users favorites list. To overcome this i moved the favorites code in the "all_products" view from the top of the function to the bottom as the page was refreshing and resetting all the products after the favorites in the code. 

- Whilst finalising the favourites functionality i realsied i was using the same looped code for the all products, favourites list in product detail and the favourites list. To comply with DRY i refactored the code to use an include function with a singular HTML file for the product loop. 

## Future improvements
- A useful feature to add would be a newsletter users could sign up to, encouraging more site visitors to create an account whilst also being able to offer discounts and detail on new products to the user. 
- Another useful feature to add for the future would be a welcome discount for all newly registered users, enticing the user to spend on the site and encouraging more users to register to the site.
